>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here are some things
that you usually do as linked lists.
So we talked about deleting
a little bit earlier.
So delete a node in
the middle of a linked list.
So the question here is, how do you
find the middle of a linked list?
How you do this is basically you need
to get the length of the linked list.
You can keep track of this.
So this concept of doing it ahead of time,
or doing it like when you need it.
So if you, for example,
as you add in those into your linked list,
you kept the size, right?
The middle would be easy cuz
you could just use subtraction.
But if you don't then you
would need to calculate that.
So, how do you calculate
the length of a link list?
Is you just have to loop through it,
that while loop that I showed you,
that's the typical way of
looping through a link list.
And then you would find the length,
you would divide that by two, and
then you would loop again
to get to the middle.
And so that's how you get to
the middle of a link list.
So if you wanna delete a duplicate
you need to track duplicates, if you
use an auxiliary data structure like
hash table, that would be pretty easy.
And you could also duplicate, so
when you're deleting a duplicate,
a rule of thumb,
depending on the data structure is, so
there are a few ways you can do it.
Using a hash table's easy cuz
you just loop through and
you save everything
through the hash table.
If it's already saved in the hash table,
the you know you've already seen it.
The other thing you can do is you can
sort the data structure with a link list,
it's kind of a hard
data structure to sort.
It is possible, but it's not a typical
question you will see in an interview.
If it is something, it would be like
a very hard interview I would say.
But you could like merge,
sort and link list.
Or you can ask, is this already sorted?
If it's duplicate question is already
sorted, great, that's easy because then
it's just a linear time thing
where you just loop through.
If there are two values next to each other
that are the same, you just delete one.
If you're going to sort it, whenever
you're sorting automatically think,
and n/logn.
Because sorting on average is gonna be
n/logn, with like the job script dot
sort method,
you can assume that would be the time
complexity of that algorithm.
So there's that, otherwise,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
those are the things I think
about when deleting duplicates.
It's not just gonna be on
a link list there's duplicates.
And erase those duplicates and yeah,
those are the main ones strings.
Strings and Arrays, and Linked List,
and duplicates are the main ones.
Hash Tables you won't
ever have a duplicate.
Stack / Queue you don't really
do a lot of traversing and
searching inside of stack and
a queue you can.
But it's not like the main reason you
would even use that data structure.
So you would see that more
with an array question.
Cool, so reversing a link list.
Basically, you need to remember how
we deleted the second to last node?
That technique is really similar
to reversing a link list,
is that you need to get the one
before each one, if that makes sense.
Or what you can do is you can have
two pointers, and then you can swap.
So a lot of these link list questions
assume that you have two pointers.
One being a slow pointer and
one being a fast pointer.
So the fast pointer goes twice as fast
than the slow pointer, typically.
And so, this one is for kth to
the last node in the linked list cycle
is like the classic problems for
a two pointer linked list.
So if you wanna see if a linked
list contains a cycle,
what you do is you start your pointer.
Let's go to a picture.
You start your pointer, your slow pointer,
would just move one, and
your fast pointer moves two.
So slow pointer starts here, and then
fast pointer starts here, it goes two.
This is a w length and so
it's not that helpful.
But essentially, if the fast pointer and
the slow pointer ever are in
the same node, that means that you have
cycle so that's the trick for that.
And then, for the kth to the last node,
assuming you don't
already know the length,
what you can do is you can have
your first pointer be at zero.
Or at the head, and then your second
pointer be at the head plus k.
And then,
you loop both of them at the same pace.
When your second pointer
gets to the last one,
your first pointer is at
the kth to the last one.
Does that make sense, kind of?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
inner outer, kinda like-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, it's actually
linear, so every time you loop you're
just moving them at the same time.
So it's always like, i + 1, i+ 1.
Once one hits null, you know that
this one is going to be k places
behind because you're just
looping them at the same speed.
If there's only one loop,
so it's a linear solution.
So it's pretty good.